# R19-Threaded-Rod-T19-

The repository for all the source files, code, and .stls for my threaded rod derivative of the T19, the R19. Held together with three 1' 8-32 threaded rods, and assorted 6-32 bolts (you also can use M3, but it is a bit hacky), and also aesthetically distinct. The cage has been changed to feature a threaded rod adapter (recommend 100% infill) and space for a rod overhead, the magwell has been adapted to accept these same rods and had its controller covers redesigned, and the rear end has been entirely remodeled (but still adhering to the original blaster's design language). 

Designed for a generic Amazon 40x60mm [perfboard](https://www.amazon.com/ELEGOO-Prototype-Soldering-Compatible-Arduino/dp/B072Z7Y19F/ref=sr_1_3?dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.nDnXrspUYPGeX4xNydfcHzssOC7z2LnRXNbgUNNKYzroR3Pn1u6qcuj3oPwj6rfLxzx0Qlo1sB3P1qGa9-Y5EODpBVBvHeYNVl9QSgg2YQhndF1_wJD85bW6qPn9G5sXr7Hj6wEQ3wsMbcHYhPIWHrdZpHo289RYsSdXkpZIU2fEY6YFq2hakIbDGhEOxtVTWNEbA-UU_JrGB0Vx9g5GjbF5FelKJ9tWay9et4QIfDU.hJNpIvQAGrZv1PaoXfJqPv5SUbaZW876cPg_pFrfzDY&dib_tag=se&keywords=perfboard&sr=8-3), the rear end of the blaster has been narrowed to more closely adhere to the stepper's profile. Ironically, this does slash half-length compatibility since that variant of the T19 kept its ESCs in the Drive Housing. I bought my own Arduino Pro Minis and DRV8855 boards and followed Toruk's [detailed but somewhat outdated guide](https://torukmakto4.blogspot.com/2019/01/t19-build-guide-part-7-blaster.html). Do note that pins 2 & 3 were reassigned to the tachometer lines [which need to be exposed from under your ESC's shrink wrap and hot-wired to](https://torukmakto4.blogspot.com/2021/01/flashing-ztw-spiders-for-flyshot.html), and correspond to now separate throttle lines for each ESC (10 & 2 and 9 & 3 respectively). As far as pin changes, note that I ended up reassigning the STEP pin off the DRV8855 to A0 (D14) and its DIR pin to A1 (D15). As the trigger lines follow the original guide (at 11 & 12), those were changed as well. I changed register accesses to correspond to these as well, which are documented in my code.

* D11: PORTB 00001000 - Trigger line 1
* D12: PORTB 00010000 - Trigger line 2
* D14: PORTC 00000001 - STEP signal
* D15: PORTC 00000010 - DIR signal

All code related to driving select-fire or speed/ROF setting were commented out. Implementing an old-styled hold down trigger on boot to set velocity and/or a tournament lock wire are things I'm interested in but that's the way it is now. If working from the original T19 source, or using mine, do be a bit more careful than me and not change/comment out things you actually needed. Bregg's [fork](https://github.com/MatthewBregg/SimpleT19Code) may be more useful for you if you want to work from scratch with your own hand-wired board and pinouts, and if you don't plan on implementing on-the-fly velocity and ROF tuning or select-fire.

To assemble the stock, keep in mind that you will need to cut 1/2"x1/8" aluminum flatbar to 200mm, trace out the drill holes (insert into the stock and mark drill points), and then cut out the locking points yourself. These can be configured to your liking, but I don't recommend making any points beyond about 150mm (which is already about 12" LOP) down as there will no longer be adequate support for bar contact to the stock. For each slot, measure out about 6mm in length for a slot and use a triangular file to open up each side and a flat file (with its thinner side) to finish it off. You can get away with as little as about 3mm deep, just don't make it too deep and compromise the flatbar's structural integrity. The locking pin is held in place by a piece on the end of the stock and needs its own spring.

I used the eBay Helibatics F-30A (originally Hobbyking) clones for 30A SimonK ESCs. I'm not positive this will be a reliable source forever (probably not), but the seller is a responsive, nice guy who has a big stockpile of them, and these ESCs are known to be fairly fuss-free for being flashed with FlyShot. I used the Arduino method in MBregg's earlier linked post, where I used KKMultiCopter, picked arduinosblinker inside the software, hooked my ESC up to a power supply (NiMH pack, Lipo, anything with enough voltage and some baselin of current capability works), and flashed Toruk's pre-compiled bs_nfet.hex file. Without buying an extra tool or needing to deal with Windows' shoddy USB driver compatibility, this worked and all I needed to do was install Java (and promptly uninstall it afterward).

With all this being said and done, keep in mind that this is primarily meant as a one-off build for myself. It has hacky, janky bits and will not be well-documented. Additional desired features, like short support, select-fire support, etc., are not likely to be implemented unless I want them for myself. I am open to answering questions on snags I faced and how these can be addressed, but no promises.`

# Licensed under the Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 license
Inherited from the license of the T19, developed by torukmakto4. Information here: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
